At the forefront of the AXS family, there are now three groups: the XX1 SL, the XX1, and the XO1 Eagle AXS. In addition, there are two E-Bike versions. Meanwhile, the GX Eagle AXS remains in its entry-level technological segment.

The developers sought to make the group more reliable, durable, and increase the shifting accuracy. 
The new aesthetics are particularly successful, and we are fans of the new lines and modernized cosmetics.

In the next issue of Vélo Vert, which will be released by the end of March, a comprehensive report will be devoted to this topic. 
But before that, here is an overview of the available groups and a review of all the components of the XX1 SL, XX1, and XO1 Eagle AXS.
It should be noted that while the new controller is compatible with old AXS transmissions, the T-Type transmission is not retrocompatible!

With three groups and two versions, Sram offers groups designed for practices ranging from XC to enduro, including E-MTB.

XX1 SL Eagle AXS (€2,650): this is the ultimate XC group! We find the direct derailleur mount on the frame, just like on the prototypes seen last year in the World Cup. 

Sram has redesigned its cranks (165, 170, and 175 mm) to make them stiffer and lighter, the 34-tooth chainring evolves as well as the control lever, cassette, and chain. This group is available in a version with a power meter (€3,250).

The derailleurs The most visible evolution concerns the direct and sandwich mounting of the derailleur on the frame. The derailleur hanger is gone! This new construction ensures more precise gear changes.

The derailleur installation is also simpler, there is no longer any need to play with adjustment screws. The clutch mechanism, in case of shock, protects the derailleur in case of a fall. 

In addition, the lower pulley continues to rotate even if an object enters the mechanism.

The upper joint and parallelogram can be replaced in case of breakage. On the XX SL Eagle version, the cage is made of carbon. These derailleurs are only compatible with frames that comply with the UDH specification. Click here https://bikefinder.sram.com/ to find out if your frame works with this standard. The cage hold is stronger than on previous models, and the motor uses more energy to make gear changes. This will affect the autonomy, which will logically be reduced.

XX1 SL: 440 g, €700
XX1: 465 g, €700
X01: 475 g, €660

The Pod Controllers The ergonomics are revised, the settings allow for personalization of the reversible left or right controller. The system approach becomes more intuitive.
Pod Controllers Ultimate: 48g, €240
Pod Controllers: 48g, €180

The cranksets 
The SL crankset has hollow carbon cranks; on the XX1 version, an internal foam reinforces the structure, while on the X01, the cranks are made of aluminum.

 For enduro, the XX1 and X01 have optional small removable protections. The chainrings adopt a new machining called T-Type, the assembly is direct. The cranks are available in 165, 170, and 175 mm, and the chainrings are offered in tooth counts ranging from 32 to 38 depending on the version (XX1 SL 32-38, XX1 30-36, X01 30-34).

